feat(curriculum): added the Tower of Hanoi Python project (#51347)
freeCodeCamp/freeCodeCamp: curriculum/challenges/english/20-upcoming-python/learn-recursion-by-solving-the-tower-of-hanoi-puzzle/64dc985e6720a23edac63b51.md

---
id: 64dc985e6720a23edac63b51
title: Step 17
challengeType: 20
dashedName: step-17
---

# --description--

The allowed disk movements between the rods exhibit a repetitive pattern occurring every three moves. For example, movements between rod `A` and rod `C` are allowed on the first, the fourth and the seventh move, where the remainder of the division between the move number and 3 is equal to 1.

> Inside the previously created `for` loop, replace the existing `print()` call with an `if` statement that is triggered when `(i + 1) % 3 == 1`. Within this `if` statement, print `f'Move {i + 1} allowed between {source} and {target}'` using an f-string. Please, note the use of `i + 1` as the move number, as `i` is zero during the first iteration.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Inside the previously created `for` loop, replace the existing `print()` call with an `if` statement that is triggered when `(i + 1) % 3 == 1`. Within this `if` statement, print `f'Move {i + 1} allowed between {source} and {target}'` using an f-string. Please, note that `i + 1` is the move number since `i` is zero during the first iteration.
```

# --hints--

> You should have an `if` statement to execute when `(i + 1) % 3 == 1`. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You should have an `if` statement that should be executed when `(i + 1) % 3 == 1`. 
```

```js
({test: () => assert.match(code, /if\s+\(\s*i\s*\+\s*1\s*\)\s*%\s*3\s*==\s*1\s*:/)})
```

> You should print the string `f'Move {i + 1} allowed between {source} and {target}'`. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You should print the string `f'Move {i + 1} allowed between {source} and {target}'` using an f-string.
```

```js
({test: () => assert.match(code, /print\s*\(\s*f('|")Move\s\{\s*i\s*\+\s*1\s*\}\sallowed\sbetween\s\{\s*source\s*\}\sand\s\{\s*target\s*\s*\}\1\s*\)/)})
```

# --seed--

## --seed-contents--

```py
NUMBER_OF_DISKS = 3

> number_of_moves = 2 ** NUMBER_OF_DISKS - 1

Reviewer: ```suggestion
number_of_moves = 2**NUMBER_OF_DISKS - 1
```

rods = {
    'A': list(range(NUMBER_OF_DISKS, 0, -1)),
    'B': [],
    'C': []
}

--fcc-editable-region--
def move(n, source, auxiliary, target):

>     # display starting configuration

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    # Display starting configuration
```

    print(rods)
    for i in range(number_of_moves):
        print(i)
--fcc-editable-region--

> # initiate call from source A to target C with auxiliary B

Reviewer: ```suggestion
# Initiate call from source A to target C with auxiliary B
```

---
id: 64dc985e6720a23edac63b51
title: Step 17
challengeType: 20
dashedName: step-17
---

# --description--

> The allowed disk movements between the rods display a repetition pattern. Allowed movements between the rods repeat every three moves. 
> For example, the first, the fourth and the seventh moves are allowed between `A` and `C`, that is, between the source and the target rods. In this case, the remainder of the division between the move number and 3 is equal to 1.
> 
> Inside the `for` loop you wrote in the previous step, remove the print statement and add an `if` statement to execute when `(i + 1) % 3 == 1`. Then, print the f-string `f'Move {i + 1} allowed between {source} and {target}'`. Please, note the use of `i + 1` as move number, since `i` equals zero for the first iteration.

Reviewer 2: Rephrased the instruction.

```suggestion
The allowed disk movements between the rods exhibit a repetitive pattern, every occurring three moves. For example, movements between rods A and C repeat on the first, fourth, seventh, etc., moves, where the remainder of the division between the move number and 3 is equal to 1.

Inside the previously created `for` loop, replace the existing print statement with an `if` statement that triggers when (i + 1) % 3 == 1. Within this if statement, print `'Move {i + 1} allowed between {source} and {target}'` usinf the `f-string` method. It's essential to note the use of `i + 1` as the move number, as `i` is `zero` during the first iteration.
```
